WebIOPi UI customization is easy but requires some CSS knowledge. The basic technic is to hide all controls, then show and move wanted controls. You will also need to add a Javascript line for each button you want to change the label.

<font color="red>*Don't modify webiopi.html and webiopi.css directly, make copies first !*</font>

RPi pins and direction buttons are all html inputs, and inherit the _input_ CSS style. There is also some class to get some generic controls :
  * .DNC : Do not connect
  * .GND : Ground
  * .V33 : 3.3V
  * .V55 : 5.0V
  * .GPIO_HIGH : GPIO in high state
  * .GPIO_LOW : GPIO in low state
  * .UART
  * .SPI
  * .I2C

  * .pinDirection_Enabled : Direction button for enabled GPIOs
  * .pinDirection_Disabled : Direction button for disabled GPIOs
  * .pinName : Name on the left/right of each pin

To hide all controls, add "visibility: hidden" to the generic input selector, to .pinDirection_Enabled and  .pinName classes in your CSS file.

Then, you can use a selector to show and modify each desired pin :
{{{
#pin3 {
  visibility: visible;
  position: absolute;
  top: 20px;
  left: 20px;
  width: 80px;
  height: 80px;
}
#pin26 {
  visibility: visible;
  position: absolute;
  top: 120px;
  left: 20px;
  width: 80px;
  height: 80px;
}
}}}
will display the RPi pin 3 (GPIO 0), with a big button in the upper-left corner.

In your HTML file, replace the title, change the link tag with webiopi.css to point to your CSS. You also have to add some Javascript next to CSS link :
{{{
<script type="text/javascript">
$(document).ready(function() {
	postDirection(3, "in"); // set RPi pin 3 (GPIO 0) to input
	$("#pin3").val("SW");  // change the label

	postDirection(26, "out"); // set RPi pin 3 (GPIO 7) to output
	$("#pin26").val("LED");  // change the label
});
</script>
}}}

Then Open a browser by appending yourfile.html to the usual URL. (http://raspberrypi/webiopi/yourfile.html) and you will see only the RPi pin 3.