<wiki:toc maxdepth=2/>
= ADC =
== analogCount() ==
Returns the analog channel count.
== analogResolution() ==
Returns the analog resolution (bit count).
== analogMaximum() ==
Returns the analog maximum integer value.
== analogReference() ==
Returns the Voltage reference for a full scale (max integer or 1.0 float)
== analogRead(channel) ==
Returns the integer value of the given analog channel.
== analogReadFloat(channel) ==
Returns the float value of the given analog channel, from 0.0 to 1.0.
== analogReadVolt(channel)
Returns the voltage value of the given analog channel.
== analogReadAll() ==
Returns a list containing all analog channels integer value.
== analogReadAllFloat() ==
Returns a list containing all analog channels float value.
== analogReadAllVolt() ==
Returns a list containing all analog channels voltage value.

= DAC =
== analogWrite(channel, value) ==
Write an integer value to the given analog channel.
== analogWriteFloat(channel, ratio) ==
Write a float ratio value to the given analog channel.
== analogWriteVolt(channel, volts) ==
Write a voltage value to the given analog channel.

= PWM =
== pwmCount() ==
Returns the PWM channel count.
== pwmResolution() ==
Returns the PWM resolution (bit count).
== pwmMaximum() ==
Returns the PWM maximum integer value.
== pwmWrite(channel, value) ==
Write an integer value to the given PWM channel.
== pwmWriteFloat(channel, ratio) ==
Write a float duty-cycle ratio value to the given PWM channel.
== pwmWriteAngle(channel, angle) ==
Write a servo angle value to the given PWM channel.
== pwmRead(channel) ==
Returns the integer value of the given PWM channel.
== pwmReadFloat(channel) ==
Returns the float duty-cycle ratio value of the given PWM channel.
== pwmReadAngle(channel) ==
Returns the servo angle value of the given PWM channel.
== pwmReadAll() ==
Returns a list containing all PWM channels integer value.
== pwmReadAllFloat() ==
Returns a list containing all PWM channels float duty-cycle ratio value.
== pwmReadAllAngle() ==
Returns a list containing all PWM channels servo angle value.
== pwmWildcard() ==
Returns a list containing all PWM channels value.