You have the choice of the install, regards on wich technology you prefer : PHP or Pyhton.

*<font color="red">Don't use different server at the same time, or it may not work correctly.</font>*
  * PHP version is good if you already have Apache/PHP or if you plan to use it, but requires some configuration.
  * Python version is perfect for one time use,  or for users who don't want to install Apache and/or modify its configuration.

=PHP=
Requires Apache2 and PHP5 on your Pi, and also some tweaks.

First install required packages. On Raspbian, open a terminal :
{{{
# sudo aptitude install apache2 php5
}}}

In order to work, WebIOPi requires to allow .htaccess :
{{{
# sudo nano /etc/apache2/sites-enabled/000-default
}}}
Find the <Directory /var/www> section and change the line "AllowOverride None" to "AllowOverride All" :
{{{
﻿  <Directory /var/www/>
﻿  ﻿  Options Indexes FollowSymLinks MultiViews
﻿  ﻿  AllowOverride All
﻿  ﻿  Order allow,deny
﻿  ﻿  allow from all
﻿  </Directory>
}}}
﻿  
You will also need to add Apache's user (www-data) to the sudoers :
{{{
# sudo visudo
}}}
then add the following line at the end of file :
{{{
www-data ALL=(ALL) NOPASSWD: ALL
}}}

Exit, save, confirm changes, and restart Apache :
{{{
# sudo /etc/init.d/apache2 restart
}}}

Now, download and extract WebIOPi :
{{{
# wget http://webiopi.googlecode.com/files/WebIOPi-0.2.tar.gz
# tar xvzf WebIOPi-0.2.tar.gz
}}}
Finally, move extracted files or create a symbolic link :
{{{
# sudo mv webiopi /var/www
or
# sudo ln -s webiopi /var/www/webiopi
}}}

You're done, and ready to enjoy WebIOPi !

=PYTHON=
Requires [http://pypi.python.org/pypi/RPi.GPIO/ RPi.GPIO] module.

You will also need Python development headers. On Raspbian, open a terminal :
{{{
# sudo aptitude install python-dev
}}}

Then download, and install GPIO module :
{{{
# wget http://raspberry-gpio-python.googlecode.com/files/RPi.GPIO-0.3.1a.tar.gz
# tar xvzf RPi.GPIO-0.3.1a.tar.gz
# cd RPi.GPIO-0.3.1a
# sudo python setup.py install
}}}

Now download and extract WebIOPi :
{{{
# wget http://webiopi.googlecode.com/files/WebIOPi-0.2.tar.gz
# tar xvzf WebIOPi-0.2.tar.gz
# cd webiopi
}}}

Finally, run the python script :
{{{
# sudo python webiopi.py [port]
or
# sudo ./webiopi.py [port]
}}}
where port is the port to bind the HTTP server, default is 80, but maybe used.

You're done, and ready to enjoy WebIOPi !