=<font color="red">(DRAFT)</font> Tutorial : Using devices=
WebIOPi include several drivers to directly control over 30 electronic devices. It provide a consistent and common abstraction for most used sensors, analog converters, and GPIO expanders. See the [DEVICES supported devices] pages for a complete listing.

All supported devices can be used in your Python script, from the REST API, the Javascript library, or even from the [PYTHONCLIENT Python] Python or [JAVACLIENT Java] Client. Function provided depend on the devices type. Devices can support one or multiples interfaces. Interfaces are grouped in 3 packages :

  * [DIGITAL Digital]
    * GPIOPort
  * [ANALOG Analog]
    * ADC (Analog to Digital Converter, ie. analog inputs)
    * DAC (Digital to Analog Converter, ie. analog outputs)
    * PWM (Pulse Width Modulation outputs)
  * [SENSOR Sensor]
    * Temperature
    * Pressure
    * Luminosity
    * Distance

==Testing Devices==
Before using devices in your Pythons script or custom UI, you may need to debug your circuitry and at least, verify it works well with the WebIOPi environment. You don't need to write any line of code to test your devices, thanks to the WebIOPi configuration file.

Edit */etc/webiopi/config*.

Assume we have a [BMP085] I2C Temperature and Pressure sensor, simply add following line in the *`[DEVICES]`* section to register it with the name *bmp*. This name will be used to identify the sensor in the whole system.
{{{
[DEVICES]
bmp = BMP085
}}}

Assume we also have a [MCP230xx MCP23008] I2C GPIO Expander, then we can also add the optional I2C slave address.
{{{
[DEVICES]
bmp = BMP085
gpio0 = MCP23008 slave:0x20
}}}

Ensure you don't have any *doc-root* directive in the *`[HTTP]`* section to use defaults web apps, save, and restart webiopi to use the device monitor (http://raspberrypi:8000/app/devices-monitor/).

Following example shows several devices displayed in the monitor.
<p align="center">http://trouch.com/wp-content/uploads/2013/03/webiopi-0.6-devices1.png</p>

==Javascript Library==

==WebIOPi Python scripts : Heater example ==
When devices are named in the configuration file, drivers are automatically called to initialize the device. We need to use the *webiopi.deviceInstance(name)* function in the Python script to retrieve the device object instance for the given name. Then we can use functions of the drivers, depending of interfaces supported.
{{{
import webiopi
GPIO = webiopi.GPIO # Helper for LOW/HIGH values
HEATER = 0 # Heater plugged on the Expander Pin 0
MIN = 20 # Minimum temperature in celsius
MAX = 22 # Maximum temperature in celsius

def setup():
    gpio0 = webiopi.deviceInstance("gpio0") # retrieve the device named "gpio0" in the configuration 
    gpio0.setFunction(HEATER, GPIO.OUT)

def loop():
    bmp = webiopi.deviceInstance("bmp") # retrieve the device named "bmp" in the configuration
    gpio0 = webiopi.deviceInstance("gpio0") # retrieve the device named "gpio0" in the configuration 
    celsius = bmp.getCelsius() # retrieve current temperature

    # Turn ON heater when passing below the minimum temperature
    if (celcius < MIN):
        gpio0.digitalWrite(HEATER, GPIO.HIGH)

   # Turn OFF heater when reaching maximum temperature
    if (celcius >= MAX):
        gpio0.digitalWrite(HEATER, GPIO.LOW)

def destroy():
    gpio0 = webiopi.deviceInstance("gpio0") # retrieve the device named "gpio0" in the configuration 
    gpio0.digitalWrite(HEATER, GPIO.LOW) # turn off to avoid over heating
}}}

==Advanced Python script==
If you don't need or don't want your devices to be binded to the REST API, you can avoid setting them in the configuration file and initialize the driver by yourself. You will just need to import the driver from the correct package. You can also use the whole library in your own Python script, without the WebIOPi HTTP server.

For instance, with our BMP085 and MCP23008 :
{{{
# import drivers
from webiopi.devices.sensor import BMP085
from webiopi.devices.digital import MCP23008

# initialize drivers
bmp = BMP085()
gpio0 = MCP23017(slave=0x20)

def setup():
...

def loop():
...

}}}